Equipe 4
[18]  arXiv:1705.03982 [pdf, ps, other]
Characteristic Matrices and Trellis Reduction for Tail-Biting Convolutional Codes
Masato Tajima
Comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)
Basic properties of a characteristic matrix for a tail-biting convolutional code are investigated. A tail-biting convolutional code can be regarded as a linear block code. Since the corresponding scalar generator matrix Gt has a kind of cyclic structure, an associated characteristic matrix also has a cyclic structure, from which basic properties of a characteristic matrix are obtained. Next, using the derived results, we discuss the possibility of trellis reduction for a given tail-biting convolutional code. There are cases where we can find a scalar generator matrix Gs equivalent to Gt based on a characteristic matrix. In this case, if the polynomial generator matrix corresponding to Gs has been reduced, or can be reduced by using appropriate transformations, then trellis reduction for the original tail-biting convolutional code is realized. In many cases, the polynomial generator matrix corresponding to Gs has a monomial factor in some column and is reduced by dividing the column by the factor. Note that this transformation corresponds to cyclically shifting the associated code subsequence (a tail-biting path is regarded as a code sequence) to the left. Thus if we allow partial cyclic shifts of a tail-biting path, then trellis reduction is accomplished.
[19]  arXiv:1705.03986 [pdf, ps, other]
Distribution of degrees of freedom over structure and motion of rigid bodies
Mieczysław A. Kłopotek
Comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
Journal-ref: Machine Graphics and Vision, 1995, Vol. 4, No 1-2 (preliminary version)
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)
This paper is concerned with recovery of motion and structure parameters from multiframes under orthogonal projection when only points are traced. The main question is how many points and/or how many frames are necessary for the task. It is demonstrated that 3 frames and 3 points are the absolute minimum. Closed-form solution is presented. Furthermore, it is shown that the task may be linearized if either four points or four frames are available. It is demonstrated that no increase in the number of points may lead to recovery of structure and motion parameters from two frames only. It is shown that instead the increase in the number of points may support the task of tracing the points from frame to frame.
[20]  arXiv:1705.03995 [pdf, other]
Learning with Noise: Enhance Distantly Supervised Relation Extraction with Dynamic Transition Matrix
Bingfeng Luo, Yansong Feng, Zheng Wang, Zhanxing Zhu, Songfang Huang, Rui Yan, Dongyan Zhao
Comments: 10 pages, accepted by ACL 2017
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)
Distant supervision significantly reduces human efforts in building training data for many classification tasks. While promising, this technique often introduces noise to the generated training data, which can severely affect the model performance. In this paper, we take a deep look at the application of distant supervision in relation extraction. We show that the dynamic transition matrix can effectively characterize the noise in the training data built by distant supervision. The transition matrix can be effectively trained using a novel curriculum learning based method without any direct supervision about the noise. We thoroughly evaluate our approach under a wide range of extraction scenarios. Experimental results show that our approach consistently improves the extraction results and outperforms the state-of-the-art in various evaluation scenarios.
[21]  arXiv:1705.03998 [pdf, other]
Mining Functional Modules by Multiview-NMF of Phenome-Genome Association
YaoGong Zhang, YingJie Xu, Xin Fan, YuXiang Hong, Jiahui Liu, ZhiCheng He, YaLou Huang, MaoQiang Xie
Subjects: Learning (cs.LG); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)
Background: Mining gene modules from genomic data is an important step to detect gene members of pathways or other relations such as protein-protein interactions. In this work, we explore the plausibility of detecting gene modules by factorizing gene-phenotype associations from a phenotype ontology rather than the conventionally used gene expression data. In particular, the hierarchical structure of ontology has not been sufficiently utilized in clustering genes while functionally related genes are consistently associated with phenotypes on the same path in the phenotype ontology. Results: We propose a hierarchal Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (NMF)-based method, called Consistent Multiple Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (CMNMF), to factorize genome-phenome association matrix at two levels of the hierarchical structure in phenotype ontology for mining gene functional modules. CMNMF constrains the gene clusters from the association matrices at two consecutive levels to be consistent since the genes are annotated with both the child phenotype and the parent phenotype in the consecutive levels. CMNMF also restricts the identified phenotype clusters to be densely connected in the phenotype ontology hierarchy. In the experiments on mining functionally related genes from mouse phenotype ontology and human phenotype ontology, CMNMF effectively improved clustering performance over the baseline methods. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was also conducted to reveal interesting gene modules. Conclusions: Utilizing the information in the hierarchical structure of phenotype ontology, CMNMF can identify functional gene modules with more biological significance than the conventional methods. CMNMF could also be a better tool for predicting members of gene pathways and protein-protein interactions. Availability: https://github.com/nkiip/CMNMF
[22]  arXiv:1705.04003 [pdf, ps, other]
Content-based Approach for Vietnamese Spam SMS Filtering
Thai-Hoang Pham, Phuong Le-Hong
Comments: 4 pages, IALP 2016
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)
Short Message Service (SMS) spam is a serious problem in Vietnam because of the availability of very cheap pre-paid SMS packages. There are some systems to detect and filter spam messages for English, most of which use machine learning techniques to analyze the content of messages and classify them. For Vietnamese, there is some research on spam email filtering but none focused on SMS. In this work, we propose the first system for filtering Vietnamese spam SMS. We first propose an appropriate preprocessing method since existing tools for Vietnamese preprocessing cannot give good accuracy on our dataset. We then experiment with vector representations and classifiers to find the best model for this problem. Our system achieves an accuracy of 94% when labelling spam messages while the misclassification rate of legitimate messages is relatively small, about only 0.4%. This is an encouraging result compared to that of English and can be served as a strong baseline for future development of Vietnamese SMS spam prevention systems.
[1]  arXiv:1705.03423 [pdf, other]
Wright meets Markowitz: How standard portfolio theory changes when assets are technologies following experience curves
Rupert Way, François Lafond, J. Doyne Farmer, Fabrizio Lillo, Valentyn Panchenko
Subjects: Economics (q-fin.EC)
This paper considers how to optimally allocate investments in a portfolio of competing technologies. We introduce a simple model representing the underlying trade-off - between investing enough effort in any one project to spur rapid progress, and diversifying effort over many projects simultaneously to hedge against failure. We use stochastic experience curves to model the idea that investing more in a technology reduces its unit costs, and we use a mean-variance objective function to understand the effects of risk aversion. In contrast to portfolio theory for standard financial assets, the feedback from the experience curves results in multiple local optima of the objective function, so different optimal portfolios may exist simultaneously. We study the two-technology case and characterize the optimal diversification as a function of relative progress rates, variability, initial cost and experience, risk aversion and total demand. There are critical regions of the parameter space in which the globally optimal portfolio changes sharply from one local minimum to another, even though the underlying parameters change only marginally, so a good understanding of the parameter space is essential. We use the efficient frontier framework to visualize technology portfolios and show that the feedback leads to nonlinear distortions of the feasible set.
[1]  arXiv:1705.03848 [pdf, ps, other]
Propensity to spending of an average consumer over a brief period
Roberto De Luca, Marco Di Mauro, Angelo Falzarano, Adele Naddeo
Comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
Journal-ref: Eur. Phys. J. B (2016) 89: 184
Subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN)
Understanding consumption dynamics and its impact on the whole economy and welfare within the present economic crisis is not an easy task. Indeed the level of consumer demand for different goods varies with the prices, consumer incomes and demographic factors. Furthermore crisis may trigger different behaviors which result in distortions and amplification effects. In the present work we propose a simple model to quantitatively describe the time evolution over a brief period of the amount of money an average consumer decides to spend, depending on his/her available budget. A simple hydrodynamical analog of the model is discussed. Finally, perspectives of this work are briefly outlined.
[1]  arXiv:1705.03888 [pdf, other]
Beyond Assembly Bias: Exploring Secondary Halo Biases for Cluster-size Haloes
Yao-Yuan Mao (1), Andrew R. Zentner (1), Risa H. Wechsler (2) ((1) U Pittsburgh/PITT PACC, (2) KIPAC/Stanford/SLAC)
Comments: 14 pages, 8+1 figures. Figures 2 and 8 highlight the main results. Submitted to MNRAS
Subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO)
Secondary halo bias, commonly known as "assembly bias," is the dependence of halo clustering on a halo property other than mass. This prediction of the Lambda-Cold Dark Matter cosmology is essential to modelling the galaxy distribution to high precision and interpreting clustering measurements. As the name suggests, different manifestations of secondary halo bias have been thought to originate from halo assembly histories. We show conclusively that this is incorrect for cluster-size haloes. We present an up-to-date summary of secondary halo biases of high-mass haloes due to various halo properties including concentration, spin, several proxies of assembly history, and subhalo properties. While concentration, spin, and the abundance and radial distribution of subhaloes exhibit significant secondary biases, properties that directly quantify halo assembly history do not. In fact, the entire assembly histories of haloes in pairs are nearly identical to those of isolated haloes. In general, a global correlation between two halo properties does not predict whether or not these two properties exhibit similar secondary biases. For example, assembly history and concentration (or subhalo abundance) are correlated for both paired and isolated haloes, but follow slightly different conditional distributions in these two cases. This results in a secondary halo bias due to concentration (or subhalo abundance), despite the lack of assembly bias in the strict sense for cluster-size haloes. Due to this complexity, caution must be exercised in using any one halo property as a proxy to study the secondary bias due to another property.
[3]  arXiv:1705.04154 [pdf, other]
Cosmic Microwave Background constraints for global strings and global monopoles
Asier Lopez-Eiguren, Joanes Lizarraga, Mark Hindmarsh, Jon Urrestilla
Comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
Subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
We present the first CMB power spectra from numerical simulations of the global O(N) linear σ-model with N = 2,3, which have global strings and monopoles as topological defects. In order to compute the CMB power spectra we compute the unequal time correlators (UETCs) of the energy-momentum tensor, showing that they fall off at high wave number faster than naive estimates based on the geometry of the defects, indicating non-trivial (anti-)correlations between the defects and the surrounding Goldstone boson field. We obtain source functions for Einstein-Boltzmann solvers from the UETCs, using a recent method that improves the modelling at the radiation- matter transition. We show that the interpolation function that mimics the transition is similar to other defect models, but not identical, confirming the non-universality of the interpolation function. The CMB power spectra for global strings and monopoles have the same overall shape as those obtained using the non-linear σ-model approximation, which is well captured by a large-N calculation. However, the amplitudes are larger than the large-N calculation predict, and in the case of global strings much larger: a factor of 20 at the peak. Finally we compare the CMB power spectra with the latest CMB data to put limits on the allowed contribution to the temperature power spectrum at multipole ℓ = 10 of 1.7% for global strings and 2.4% for global monopoles. These limits correspond to symmetry-breaking scales of 2.9x1015 GeV (6.3x1014 GeV with the expected logarithmic scaling of the effective string tension between the simulation time and decoupling) and 6.4x1015 GeV respectively. The bound on global strings is a significant one for the ultra-light axion scenario with axion masses ma 10-28 eV. These upper limits indicate that gravitational wave from global topological defects will not be observable at the GW observatory LISA.
[7]  arXiv:1705.03897 (cross-list from hep-ph) [pdf, other]
On the Completeness of Vector Portal Theories: New Insights into the Dark Sector and its Interplay with Higgs Physics
Yanou Cui, Francesco D'Eramo
Comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
Subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
We study a broad class of vector portal models where the Standard Model (SM) gauge symmetry is extended with a new abelian group U(1)′. We augment the SM field content by an arbitrary number of scalars and fermions that are singlets under the SM and charged only under the U(1)′, potentially including dark matter (DM) candidates. We emphasize the importance of theoretical issues such as the classical gauge invariance of the full Lagrangian, anomaly cancellation and S-matrix unitarity, which apply to U(1)′ spontaneously broken at different mass scales. These considerations are shown to generally have profound consequences on the phenomenology. The condition of cancelling gauge anomalies leads to compact relations among the U(1)′ charges of the SM fields and dark fermion fields, and puts a lower bound on the number of dark fermion species. Contrary to naive expectations, the generically present DM annihilation to Zh is found to be p-wave suppressed, as hinted by perturbative unitarity of S-matrix, with dramatic implications for DM thermal relic density and indirect searches. Finally, we specify a UV-complete benchmark model, and explore its phenomenology, including DM direct and indirect detections and searches at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Within this framework, the interplay between dark matter, new vector boson and Higgs physics is rather natural and generic.
[9]  arXiv:1705.03958 (cross-list from gr-qc) [pdf, ps, other]
Eternal inflation and the quantum birth of cosmic structure
Gabriel Leon
Comments: 9 pages plus references
Subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO)
We consider the eternal inflation scenario with the additional element of an objective collapse of the wave function. The incorporation of this new agent to the traditional inflationary setting responds to the necessity of addressing the lack of an explanation for the generation of the primordial anisotropies and inhomogeneities, starting from a perfectly symmetric background and invoking symmetric dynamics. We adopt the continuous spontaneous localization model, in the context of inflation, as the dynamical reduction mechanism that generates the primordial inhomogeneities. Furthermore, when enforcing the objective reduction mechanism, the condition for eternal inflation can be bypassed. In particular, the collapse mechanism incites the wave function, corresponding to the inflaton, to localize itself around the zero mode of the field. Then, the zero mode will evolve essentially unperturbed, driving inflation to an end in any region of the Universe where inflation occurred. Also, our approach achieves a primordial spectrum with an amplitude and shape consistent with the one that best fits the observational data.
[10]  arXiv:1705.04230 (cross-list from hep-ph) [pdf, other]
Blind Spots for Direct Detection with Simplified DM Models and the LHC
Arghya Choudhury, Kamila Kowalska, Leszek Roszkowski, Enrico Maria Sessolo, Andrew J. Williams
Comments: 9 Pages, Talk presented at the conference "Varying Constants and Fundamental Cosmology - VARCOSMOFUN'16" (Szczecin, Poland), Published in Universe (proceedings of VARCOSMOFUN'16)
Journal-ref: Universe 2017, 3(2), 41
Subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)
Using the existing simplified model framework, we build several dark matter models which have suppressed spin-independent scattering cross section. We show that the scattering cross section can vanish due to interference effects with models obtained by simple combinations of simplified models. For weakly interacting massive particle (WIMP) masses ≳10 GeV, collider limits are usually much weaker than the direct detection limits coming from LUX or XENON100. However, for our model combinations, LHC analyses are more competitive for some parts of the parameter space. The regions with direct detection blind spots can be strongly constrained from the complementary use of several Large Hadron Collider (LHC) searches like mono-jet, jets + missing transverse energy, heavy vector resonance searches, etc. We evaluate the strongest limits for combinations of scalar + vector, "squark" + vector, and scalar + "squark" mediator, and present the LHC 14 TeV projections.
[6]  arXiv:1705.03920 [pdf, other]
Spin-tensor--momentum-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
Xi-Wang Luo, Kuei Sun, Chuanwei Zhang
Comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
Subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
The recent experimental realization of spin-orbit coupling for ultracold atomic gases provides a powerful platform for exploring many interesting quantum phenomena. In these studies, spin represents spin vector (spin-1/2 or spin-1) and orbit represents linear momentum. Here we propose a scheme to realize a new type of spin-tensor--momentum coupling (STMC) in spin-1 ultracold atomic gases. We study the ground state properties of interacting Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) with STMC and find interesting new types of stripe superfluid phases and multicritical points for phase transitions. Furthermore, we show that a stripe phase with a long tunable period and high visibility of density modulation can be dynamically generated using STMC, paving the way for direct experimental observation of the long-sought stripe phases. Our scheme for generating STMC can be generalized to other systems and may open the door for exploring novel quantum physics and device applications.
[7]  arXiv:1705.03923 [pdf, ps, other]
The theory of avoided criticality in quantum motion in a random potential in high dimensions
V. Gurarie
Subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
The density of states of a three dimensional Dirac equation with a random potential as well as in other problems of quantum motion in a random potential placed in sufficiently high spatial dimensionality appears to be singular at a certain critical disorder strength. This was seen numerically in a variety of studies as well as supported by detailed renormalization group calculations. At the same time it was suggested by a number of arguments accompanied by detailed numerical simulations that this singularity is rounded off by the rare region fluctuations of random potential, and that tuning the disorder past its critical value is not a genuine phase transition but rather a crossover. Here we develop an analytic theory which explains how rare region effects indeed lead to rounding off of the singularity and to the crossover replacing the transition.
[8]  arXiv:1705.03927 [pdf, other]
Multiscale Structure of More-than-Binary Variables
Blake C. Stacey
Comments: 6 pages, 0 figures, 1 term from quantum information theory reappropriated for classical ends; a shorter sequel to arXiv:1409.4708 [cond-mat.stat-mech]
Subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
In earlier work, my colleagues and I developed a formalism for using information theory to understand scales of organization and structure in multi-component systems. One prominent theme of that work was that the structure of a system cannot always be decomposed into pairwise relationships. In this brief communication, I refine that formalism to address recent examples which bring out that theme in a novel and subtle way. After summarizing key points of earlier papers, I introduce the crucial new concept of an ancilla component, and I apply this refinement of our formalism to illustrative examples. The goals of this brief communication are, first, to show how a simple scheme for constructing ancillae can be useful in bringing out subtleties of structure, and second, to compare this scheme with another recent proposal in the same genre.
[9]  arXiv:1705.03939 [pdf, ps, other]
Overlap synchronisation in multipartite random energy models
Giuseppe Genovese, Daniele Tantari
Comments: 6 pages
Subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Probability (math.PR)
In a multipartite random energy model, made of a number of coupled GREMs, we determine the joint law of the overlaps in terms of the ones of the single GREMs. This provides the simplest example of the so-called overlap synchronisation.
[11]  arXiv:1705.03956 [pdf, ps, other]
Thickening and sickening the SYK model
D.V. Khveshchenko
Comments: Latex, no figures
Subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
This note addresses higher dimensional generalizations of the 0+1-dimensional Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) model which presents an important example of potentially exact holographic correspondence. Unlike in the constructions where multiple spatial replicas of SYK are coupled via some local one- and/or two-particle hopping processes, this case study focuses on the long-range-correlated homogeneous systems. The pertinent strong-coupling solutions, emergent reparametrization symmetry, effective action for fluctuations, and a chaotic behavior (or a lack thereof) are discussed.
[2]  arXiv:1705.04030 [pdf, ps, other]
Lax Representations for Matrix Short Pulse Equations
Ziemowit Popowicz
Subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
The Lax representation for different matrix generalizations of Short Pulse Equations (SPE) is considered. The four-dimensional Lax representations of four-component Matsuno, Feng and Dimakis-M\"{u}ller-Hoissen-Matsuno equations is obtained. The four-component Feng system is defined by generalization of the two-dimensional Lax representation to the four-component case. This system reduces to the original Feng equation or to the two-component Matsuno equation or to the Yao-Zang equation. The three component version of Feng equation is presented. 
The four-component version of Matsuno equation with its Lax representation is given . 
This equation reduces the new two-component Feng system. 
The two-component Dimakis-M\"{u}ller-Hoissen-Matsuno equations are generalized to the four parameter family of the four-component SPE. The bi-Hamiltonian structure of this generalization, for special values of parameters, is defined. This four-component SPE in special case reduces to the new two-component SPE.
[10]  arXiv:1705.03978 [pdf, other]
Monitoring Nonadiabatic Avoided Crossing Dynamics in Molecules by Ultrafast X-Ray Diffraction
Markus Kowalewski, Kochise Bennett, Shaul Mukamel
Subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
We examine time-resolved X-ray diffraction from molecules in the gas phase which undergo nonadiabatic avoided-crossing dynamics involving strongly coupled electrons and nuclei. Several contributions to the signal are identified, representing (in decreasing strength) elastic scattering, contributions of the electronic coherences created by nonadiabatic couplings in the avoided crossing regime, and inelastic scattering. The former probes the charge density and delivers direct information on the evolving molecular geometry. The latter two contributions are weaker and carry spatial information of the transition charge densities (off-diagonal elements of the charge-density operator). Simulations are presented for the nonadiabatic harpooning process in the excited states of sodium fluoride.
[11]  arXiv:1705.03993 [pdf, other]
Incoherent lensless imaging via coherency back-propagation
Ahmed El-Halawany, Andre Beckus, H. Esat Kondakci, Morgan Monroe, Nafiseh Mohammadian, George K. Atia, Ayman F. Abouraddy
Comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
Subjects: Optics (physics.optics)
The two-point complex coherence function constitutes a complete representation for scalar quasi-monochromatic optical fields. Exploiting dynamically reconfigurable slits implemented with a digital micromirror device, we report on measurements of the complex two-point coherence function for partially coherent light scattering from a `scene' comprising one or two objects at different transverse and axial positions with respect to the source. Although the intensity shows no discernible shadows in absence of a lens, numerically back-propagating the measured complex coherence function allows estimating the objects' sizes and locations -- and thus the reconstruction of the scene.




